Demo Site with Basic UI and Navigation

Uses Python's Flask framework. Read more here : http://flask.pocoo.org/

Getting the web server to run locally on your computer. note: Later we will be using heroku cloud platform. Read more here : https://heroku.com

Set up local code environment with Virtualenv

Put the ImmMetaDemo code in a directory

With Terminal, navigate to the code directory

Python can help organize your code modules, keeping them separate from existing Python modules with Virtualenv (virtual environment).

easy_install virtualenv

Install PIP

easy_install pip

Virtualenv will organize all your modules and even download new requested packages and updates. When activated, Virtualenv will supply the modules needed for an application.

Create a virtual environment

Inside your code directory, run the command

virtualenv venv

We are telling Virtualenv to create a new directory called venv to manage our packages.

Turn on the Virtualenv

Once created we need to turn on the virtual environment, telling the computer to use the venv as a source for all packages.

. venv/bin/activate
The '.' is an execution command, saying "Hey, run the 'activate' program inside /venv/bin directory".

Install Requirements with PIP

There is a file requirements.txt that lists all the packages we need to run the web server. Earlier we imported Flask manually but now we will import Flask via PIP's alternative method.

requirements.txt

Flask==0.10
Currently there is only one package requested, Flask version 0.9.

To install the required packages run the command,

pip install -r requirements.txt
PIP installs all requested requirements and it also downloads all of their dependencies (werkzeug and jinja2).

Run web server locally

With all the requirements installed let's turn on the server,

python app.py
Stop the server with CTRL+C inside the Terminal window.

Alternatively, we can use a new command to turn on the server. The Heroku Toolbelt (https://toolbelt.heroku.com) will install Foreman, a helper utility for running applications. Run the command,

foreman start
Foreman uses the file Procfile to know what to turn on. There is a single line inside Procfile,

web: python app.py
The Procfile will be pushed to Heroku, it tells Heroku(at a later stage) where are main web server script is located, app.py. It also declares we're using Python.

TUTORIAL :

http://blog.miguelgrinberg.com/post/the-flask-mega-tutorial-part-i-hello-world
